# logs
- clocked in at 12 PM
- build complete that i started yesterday, logs show it took 142mins (2hr22m) (using $bld -c linux -m ls1028ardb)
- identify sd card using command $ lsblk
- unmount partition for formatting $ umount /dev/sdc1
- formatting and creating partiton table $ sudo ./flex-installer -i pf -d /dev/sdc (-i pf : install partition flag), creates 3 ext4 partitions
- flash and copy firmware, bootloaders, kernel, bootfiles, entire rootfs using $sudo ./flex-installer -d /dev/sdc -m ls1028ardb -f firmware_ls1028ardb_sdboot.img -b boot_LS_arm64_lts_6.6.52.tar.zst -r ../rfs/rootfs_lsdk2506_debian_desktop_arm64
- force data cached in memory to be written to disk using $sudo sync

- connect serial adapter and turn on switch
- find serial connection in pc, using $dmesg | tail , it prints the contents of the kernel's ring buffer, which includes the device file of serial-usb connection
- connected to switch using usb-serial connection using command, $sudo picocom -b 115200 /dev/ttyUSB0

- tried booting from sd card, it didnt read, it failed over to it's default, internal eMMC memory.
- checked manual it says to change the switch config of sw2 physical switch on the board
- opened the switched cover, and changed the physical switch configuration to load os from sd card. 
- clocked out 17:15PM

# notes
- try checkin with julia for keys
- give ali's key to someone before clocking out
- BSP file name (firmware_ls1028ardb_sdboot.img)
- BSP (like a car's engine that is use to run the machine but we dont interact with it directly) different from traditional OS (like car's chassis which we interact with)
- BSP includes 
    - Bootloader (U-Boot): A small program that runs first. Its job is to initialize the most critical hardware (like RAM and CPU cores) and then find, load, and execute the main Linux kernel.
    - ARM Trusted Firmware (ATF): Even lower-level code that handles secure boot, power management, and transitions between different security states of the processor.
    - Device Tree Blob (.dtb): This is not code, but a data file. It's a map that describes all the specific hardware components on your ls1028ardb board (which network chip it has, how much RAM, which GPIO pins are connected, etc.) and tells the Linux kernel how to use them.
    - Other Peripheral Firmware: Tiny pieces of code needed to operate specific onboard devices.
- $bld -m ls1028ardb command runs a complete, end-to-end build processcreates which includes builds kernel, generates intial root filesystem, builds dozens of application components (gpu_viv, gstreamer, dpdk, etc.), builds BSP, packages the boot partition, merges and packs final rootfs
- i got the key, return the key back to building a technician, first door to left at entry before contract period ends
- 3 partitions:
    - 1st sdc1 includes linux kernel, device tree, other boot time fiels
    - 3rd sdc3 includes entire debian desktop root file system
- $ dmesg | tail
    - $dmesg, short for "display message" or "driver message". It prints the contents of the kernel's ring buffer. This is a special log kept by the Linux kernel itself that records events related to hardware detection, device driver loading, and low-level system errors. When you plug in a new device, the kernel logs its attempt to identify it and load the correct driver. 
    - | tail: This command is used to display the end of a text file or stream.
    - because when you plug in a new USB device, the very last things the kernel logs will be the detection of that device and the name of the device file it was assigned (like ttyUSB0).
- $sudo picocom -b 115200 /dev/ttyUSB0
    - picocom: name of the program. It's a very simple, lightweight "dumb terminal" emulator. Its job is to open a serial port, display any data that comes from it, and send any data you type into it.
    - -b 115200: This is an option (or "flag") that sets the communication speed, -b stands for baud rate. 115200 is the speed in bits per second. For two devices to communicate over a serial connection, they must be set to the exact same speed. 115200 is a very common standard for the console ports on embedded boards.
    - /dev/ttyUSB0: This is the final argument, telling picocom which device to connect to. dev is the directory where Linux stores special files that represent hardware devices. ttyUSB0 is the device file that the kernel created to represent your USB-to-serial adapter. (tty is an old abbreviation for "teletypewriter").