# logs
- clocked in at 12:00
- connected sma connector to j12 pin for gps signal, even though in manual its written it is pps output, because the gps device is passive so it wont damage the hardware
- disconnected the cables because in documentation it is written output so dont want to keep trying on it
- need to buy SMA Female to Dupont Female Pigtail
- need to investigate how to get time data from gps using pps, but moving ahead that it is possible, now how to use the pps signal.
- clock out at 17:40

# notes
- figure out about all the clocks and signals and outputs and permutation and combination to time sync clocks with different ports or pins. 
- after full knowledge, depending on the use case of the project, can i propose the idea of implementation of how my board will fit in it.
- there is chip named 5P49V5907 that generates different frequency for different clocks like:
    - Differential System Clock (DIFF_SYSCLK) - 100 MHz
    - SerDes Clocks (REF_CLK1, REF_CLK2) - 100 MHz
    - Ethernet Clock - 125 MHz
    - Display Port Clock (DP_REFCLK) - 27 MHz
    - FPGA CLK - 25 MHz to CPLD
using crystal oscillator of 25MHz

- According to my research, there is pps output as sma female conenctor j12, and there is pin 2 of j11 connector that takes in 1588 trigger in, which can be used as pps input. 
- but to use pps input from gps, we also need serial data for knowing what time in hours and minutes is it, then we can use pps as second precision.
- for that we need to have a processor in between the gps antenna and nxp switch, that converts the rf signals into serial and pps signals. 
- or we need to use gps anthena with usb output. and install drivers to interpret the rf signals. 

- 