# logs
- clocked in 12:59
- Table 11. IEEE1588 and IEEE1722 signals of QorIQ LS1028A Reference Design Board Reference Manual, Rev. 3, 07 February 2022, This table explains which physical signals related to IEEE1588 (PTP) and IEEE1722 (AVB/TSN) are available on the LS1028ARDB board, and how their availability depends on the RCW pinmux setting, specifically EC1_SAI4_5_PMUX.
- This signal is available only when RCW field EC1_SAI4_5_PMUX is set to 3'b101 (IEEE1588). 
- EC1_SAI4_5_PMUX=5 (binary 101) configures the pins for IEEE1588/PTP functions (not audio, not GPIO). If you want to use the J11 header for IEEE1588 features (like 1588_TRIG_IN1, 1588_CLK_IN1, or 1588_PULSE_OUT11), you must set EC1_SAI4_5_PMUX=5 in your RCW. - If you set it to another value (like 1 for GPIO or 0 for SAI), those IEEE1588 signals will not be available on the J11 header.


# notes
- pps generations (something about channel) notes from page 1058 of Layerscape Software Development Kit User Guide, Rev. 21.08, 05 September 2022
    - Set SWTICH_1588_DAT0 function as periodic clock
    # echo 2 0 > /sys/class/ptp/ptp1/pins/switch_1588_dat0
    The first parameter stands for pin function. Driver now supports only periodic clock function (PPS is a special case of it) which
    value is 2.
    The second parameter stands for the channel we set. It should be a value which has not been used.
    - Configure SWTICH_1588_DAT0 to PPS signal or periodic clock
    # echo '0 0 0 1 0' > /sys/class/ptp/ptp1/period
    The parameters' format is "<channel> <start.sec> <start.nsec> <period.sec> <period.nsec>".
    So current command is configuring a PPS signal to start immediately. Similarly, other periodic clock could be configured too.
    - Note: absolute start time is not supported by hardware, so the start time must be "0 0". But nsec could be accepted for PPS phase
    adjustment if it's configuring PPS.