# logs
- clocked in at 12:42
- flex-installer -i auto give kernel panic "end Kernel panic - not syncing: No working init found.  Try passing init= option to kernel. See Linux Documentation/admin-guide/init.rst for guidance." --> here is a subtle mismatch (likely in the C libraries or toolchain) that prevents the kernel from executing the init program.
- pin configuration are not in device tree for layerscape, they are part of RCW (Reset Configuration Word) - a binary blob settings, that is loaded before linux starts (components_lsdk2506/bsp/rcw/ls1028ardb/R_SQPP_0x85bb/rcw_1500_gpu600.rcw)
rcw_sd="bsp/rcw/ls1028ardb/R_SQPP_0x85bb/rcw_1500_gpu600.bin"
- These _PMUX settings determine what function each pin performs. The RCW is the "BIOS" of the NXP SoC. 

- Historically, NXP had separate repositories for QorIQ (Layerscape) and i.MX. However, starting a few years ago (around Kernel 5.10/5.15), they merged everything into a single "Real-Time Edge" or "Unified" BSP.
- Even though the repository is named linux-imx, it is actually the Unified NXP Linux Kernel. 
- Shared Architecture: Both i.MX8/9 and Layerscape (LS1028A, LX2160A) are ARM64 architectures. They share a huge amount of code (scheduler, memory management, standard drivers). 
- Shared IP Blocks: Newer i.MX and Layerscape chips often share internal peripherals (like the ENETC network controller or similar PCIe controllers), so keeping them in one repo makes maintenance easier for NXP.
- The difference is not in the repository, but in the Configuration (defconfig).
- If you look at your sdk.yml file (lines 68-70), you will see:
KERNEL_CONFIG:
  ARM64_LS:  "defconfig lsdk.config"    # <--- Layerscape uses standard defconfig + lsdk addons
  ARM64_IMX: "imx_v8_defconfig"         # <--- i.MX uses its own specific config
- When you build for LS1028A: Flexbuild pulls the linux-imx repo but applies the ARM64_LS configuration. This enables all the Layerscape-specific drivers (DPAA2, RCW, QBMAN) and disables the i.MX-specific graphics/VPU drivers that you don't need.

# notes
- For your board (LS1028ARDB) and SD card boot, the source file is located here: rcw_1500_sdboot.rcw
CLK_OUT_PMUX=2
EC1_SAI4_5_PMUX=5
IIC2_PMUX=6
- These values (2, 5, 6) tell the chip which function to assign to a group of pins.
- To Enable 1588 Triggers: They are often multiplexed with CLK_OUT or SAI (Audio) pins.
- Current State: Your file has CLK_OUT_PMUX=2. On many NXP chips, value 2 for CLK_OUT enables the IEEE 1588 functions. This suggests the default is likely correct.
- If you edit the .rcw file, you must rebuild the firmware and reflash it to the SD card.
- Rebuild the Firmware
flex-builder -c rcw -m ls1028ardb
flex-builder -i mkfw -m ls1028ardb
- The default CLK_OUT_PMUX=2 usually enables the 1588 features on the J11 header. The ts2phc test is the best way to confirm this without risking a bricked board.